- yen this video is going to be quick
because most of you can already guess
what it is I've got to say but all the
text that appears on screen we have a
series of quotations that's led by
really quickly I am going to read out to
you and briefly discuss so the next one
number six I think do I worship at the
altar of Peter Singer and think that
painlessly killing animals is okay so
this is actually a pretty simplistic
understanding of Peter singers views as
well as I know
[Music]
and I actually did once agree with them
as evidenced by this interview which I
think is where this is all coming from
which is totally fair this is one of
those examples where why I didn't want
to call this video trolling you think
that you may have guessed that I've had
a lot of feedback lately positive
feedback from people indicating that
they really didn't know the things about
the philosophy of Peter Singer that I
have recently unwrapped idli referred to
as things that everybody knows so here
on screen this quotation you've seen me
present in a recent video and I knew
that I'd used the same quotation at some
point in the past many videos ago but
when I was searching my own channel for
it I couldn't find it myself
so this combination of factors makes me
want to record a new video try to get
this across to you rapidly and
efficiently singer does not think that
is necessarily a problem that we use
nonhumans for human purposes because he
does not regard the killing of animals
is necessarily immoral you're gonna see
what his philosophical reason or excuse
for that is in just a moment here it was
skipping ahead just to summarize this
more briefly the core of Peter singers
philosophy is what is stated here as he
claims that animals do not care that we
use them they only care about how we use
them that includes the bizarre caveat
that they do not care if they are killed
and further this is not sit here singer
does not believe there's any harm done
if you kill an animal so long as that
animal is replaced that somehow harm is
negated by replacement and believe it or
not he does apply this to humans he
believes that if a parent has a child
with quote unquote bad prospects so this
is part of the eugenics argument with
with Peter Singer a child who has say
dyslexia or some form of retardation the
parents can kill that child as
painlessly as possible and then replace
it with another child and because of the
principle of replacement that he
believes in no harm is done by killing
one child and replacing with another
that would have better prospects so
likewise he believes that
a pig if done without pain and suffering
or as little pain and suffering as
possible given that the pig is replaced
with another Pig this somehow does no
harm
so that is a bizarre philosophical sense
of harm as you see he has a bizarre
physic philosophical sense of use of
animals and how they're used versus that
they are used etc etc well that's the
legacy of Peter Singer he spent decades
and published books arguing this quote
so the first part of this quotation is
of someone writing in - Gary Francis II
own a and then a reply from Kate France
and I quote I recently attended a talk
by Peter Singer I was horrified and
mystified to hear him explicitly state
that killing animals is not a species
astac if done painlessly I have read
some of your work and of course objected
this assertion
alright so Gary francium replies as I
stated in the preceding essay no one
should be surprised or shocked that
singer does not regard killing animals
as objectionable per se he has been
taking this position for the past 33
years ever since he wrote Animal
Liberation so it's now more than 33
years
I know long ago this is written this
this comment in the internet singer does
not regard killing animals as speciesist
because he does not think that animals
have an interest in continuing to live
so we we do not harm them therefore we
do not harm them when we kill them
painlessly what is the meaning of harm
if you genuinely believe you do not harm
someone or something in killing them
it's bizarre
you must regard life itself as a kind of
disease to be cured by death to believe
in this and here is the quotation that
unnatural vegan Swayze herself chose
where she says I agree with singer while
I personally would not consume animals
even if no suffering could be guaranteed
I would have no qualms with others
choosing to do so now I think that it is
very fair to say if you have no qualms
with others eating meat but you just
personally choose not to eat meat then
you are not vegan I think this is the
most important element of the difference
between being vegan and plant-based just
not a sinker expert
[Music]
eggs from rescued chickens that live
like in someone's backyard and they're
well cared for they're treated like like
you would treat a dog or a cat right I
think a really good example would be a
in a backyard hen you know having a hen
who produces unfertilized eggs and then
consuming those eggs assuming the hen is
well cared for and loved and all of that
kind of stuff what would be the harm
drinking milk
like drinking cow's milk it could be
another example abuse without
exploitation just not a sinker expert
okay continuing in the same vein and
quoting from France Leone's website
although he is himself quoting Peter
Singer all those singer has stated this
position at various places in his
writings his interview in the vegan so
it's a magazine called the vegan in the
vegan contains a recent brief and clear
reiteration of his view quotes this is
quoting Peter Singer I do think that
there are morally relevant differences
between various species because the
cognitive capacities of beings are
relevant to for example the wrongness of
killing them I think that it is worse to
kill a self-aware being that is a being
who is aware of its own existence over
time and is able to have desires for the
future than a being who may be conscious
but is not self-aware and lives in a
kind of eternal present now this to me
is a religious statement this is someone
who has a religious belief that animals
are not capable of ID aiding the future
and then who want that basis claims that
it is okay to kill animals um this was
never based on science and you know
there are different intelligence tests
that we use with different types of
animals but including can they recognize
themselves in a mirror
ie can they look at a mirror and realize
that this is a reflection of who they
are and not an imager not a different
animal that they're looking at can they
recognize that they're looking at
themselves there are many different
standards for how we can objectively
empirically scientifically
measure or estimate animal intelligence
we put them in laboratories and test
their ability to go through a maze and
solve problems and so on and so forth
with many species of animal we now have
proof that they use spoken language
including by the way
groundhogs Richardson's ground squirrel
is the species have read about but
groundhogs that actually do speak to
each other and we've been able to
through computational linguistics record
and in a limited sense translate what it
is they're saying and prove that they
have rational communication and we kill
groundhogs every day just in order to
produce weed and corn even if you're a
vegan you're responsible for killing
this this type of mammal so look there
are extensive Studies on even the
language capacity of social insects bees
and ants communicating with each other
and the reasoning and planning and doing
things in the future doing things
tomorrow that the honeybees plan to do
today even the intelligence of marine
animals I've seen studies on the
intelligence of cuttlefish
so cuttlefish have a pretty big brain
relative to their body capacity their
language and thinking this is just a
religious claim this is just as
ridiculous as someone claiming that they
were handed down the truth written into
a piece of stone on the top of a volcano
he claims he has this magical truth that
is not based on any kind of scientific
evidence and can't be refuted or
questioned or challenged by scientific
evidence he claims animals with a few
exceptions such as Apes primates animals
generally and obviously including cats
dogs cows pigs and sheep the animals we
exploit most frequently on earth they
have no ability to think of their own
existence over time and have no desires
for the future it's a really low
standard I mean it's v's if you oh if
you've grown up with a dog as a pet or
something it's really not hard to
challenge this empirically and that
because they live in an eternal present
he is dooming them to perpetual
captivity suffering exploitation and
death now
even if I knew a human being named that
trait even if I knew a human being that
was true of I knew a human being who was
mentally [ __ ] to the extent that
they couldn't think about the future
desire things for the future I still
would never wish on them the life that
we condemned farm animals - to me that's
that's ridiculous that's deeply immoral
whether you're vegan or not and you know
this is a discourse happening within
veganism okay
again another quote from Peter Singer
but presented by girlfriend Sione for
example in 2006 interview in the vegan
Peter Singer states to avoid inflicting
suffering on animals not to mention the
environmental costs of intensive animal
production we need to cut down
drastically on the animal products we
consume but does that mean a vegan world
that's one solution but not necessarily
the only one if it is the infliction of
suffering that we are concerned about
rather than killing then I can also
imagine a world in which most people
mostly eat plant foods but occasionally
treat themselves to the luxury of
free-range eggs or possibly even meat
from animals who live good lives under
conditions natural for their species and
then are humanely killed on the farm
obvious that's completely absurd if you
were talking about hunting you can have
animals living in the wild and
conditions that are natural for their
species in the jungle and then being
killed by hunters there's absolutely no
way you're gonna have conditions
resembling what's natural or the species
on a farm so this is absurd and immoral
and it's anti vegan ok one more quote
here I think singers focus on the
treatment rather than the killing of
animals leads the position that veganism
is simply one of a number of ways to
reduce suffering but that there is
nothing mandatory or required of a
veganism because there is nothing
inherently wrong with killing animals
indeed singer regards being a consistent
vegan as quote unquote fanatical so if
you have been watching unnatural vegans
content that might sound awfully
familiar to you guess what guys when I
found the older video that I did on this
topic the number of thumbs down was much
much greater than the number of thumbs
up and that was just about one year and
one
month ago when I raised these same
issues two years ago and three years ago
again there was a chorus of public
opinion this is with the in veganism
supporting a natural vegan and opposing
me and saying that I was somehow being
unreasonable and today I look at the
thumbs-up and thumbs-down ratios and I
see the overall discourse comments
discussion and commentary and it's very
obvious that the bulk of public opinion
within our tiny political movement has
come over to my side I don't know if
things are getting better but this is
one example at least in which they're
getting more rational and less
ridiculous
virus yen